---
title: "Characterizing College Science Assessments: The Three-Dimensional Learning Assessment Protocol"
date: 2023-09-22
draft: true
---


**Literature Summary**: The three-dimensional learning (3DL) that prioritizes three key elements: core ideas, crosscutting concepts, and scientific practices into its framework needs to be paired with specific assessments strategies to characterize this learning in our students. Laverty et al., propose an assessment protocol to accompany the 3DL scaffold that capture:

1. *What students should be able to do with their knowledge* 
    - scientific and engineering practices
2. *Ideas common across scientific disciplines* 
    - crosscutting concepts
3. *Concepts essential to the study of a discipline* 
    - big ideas

Talk about Assessment protocol?


**Interpretation & Reflection**:

For me, I think that this work along with Council, 2012 and Cooper et al., 2015 (where 3DL is first proposed) has the power to transform how students engage with material. Historically, information travels in one-direction, from the instructor to the student, whereby the instructors' have all the knowledge and are pouring it into students heads. Using 3DL, learning material centers around core ideas, crosscutting concepts, and scientific and engineering practices that allows students to link/conceptualize new found knowledge and scientific experiences into their mental model. Another way to say it, is instead of pouring unrelated facts into students heads and preparing them for trivia contest, the 3DL framework allows students to link new info into their current mental models and is like sticking new pieces of Velcro to their brains. 

Where the big ideas are defined within a discipline or by the instructor teaching a course, Laverty et al. 
defines crosscutting concepts and scientific and engineering practices in [table 1](3DLAP_Table1.pdf). 


By focusing on the big ideas/crosscutting concepts in the 3DL Framework, we can help *all* students build a robust understanding of science.

Laverty et al., focuses the rest of the article (like 14 more pages) on developing assessments to target the three question outline above. This is really comprehensive and I recommend that anyone reads this after understanding the 3DL Framework. Below I talk about my interpretation and reflection on the work! 

**Reference**: 

Laverty JT, Underwood SM, Matz RL, Posey LA, Carmel JH, Caballero MD, et al. (2016) Characterizing College Science Assessments: The Three-Dimensional Learning Assessment Protocol. PLoS ONE 11(9): e0162333. 

Supplementary Section(s): 3D-LAP Protocol 

Council, N. R. (2012). A Framework for K-12 Science Education: Practices, Crosscutting Concepts, and Core Ideas. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press.

Cooper, M. M., et al. (2015). Challenge faculty to transform STEM learning. Science (New York, N.Y.), 350(6258), 281–282. 